doc/advanced.rst, before:

.. _advanced:

Advanced features
=================

Land cover evolution
--------------------

The land cover types in hydrobricks are defined by the user
(see the :ref:`hydro units section <spatial-structure>`).
Each hydro unit is thus internally defined by a total area and fractional land covers.
These land covers can have a dynamic evolution, externally driven.
One can provide the model with a timeseries of dates and new land cover areas, such as:

.. code-block:: python

   changes = behaviours.BehaviourLandCoverChange()
   changes.load_from_csv(
       '/path/to/surface_changes_glacier_debris.csv',
       hydro_units, area_unit='km2', match_with='elevation'
   )
   model.add_behaviour(changes)

The definition of a land cover evolution does not replace the original definition of
the hydro units, which need to be also provided to the function.
The areas provided in the definition of the hydro units are the starting point of the
model, and these changes will be enforced in due time.
However, if some changes are defined for dates prior to the start of the modelling
period, these changes will also be applied.
The function ``changes.load_from_csv()`` can be called multiple times for different files.
The corresponding csv file must contain the name of the land cover to change on the
first row (for example here ``glacier_debris``), the dates of these changes on the
second row, and then the change time series.
These changes list all hydro units that need to change; those that do not need to
change should not be listed in the file.
There are two ways to identify the hydro units: by elevation
(``match_with='elevation'``) or by ID (``match_with='id'``).
In the following example, these changes start with the unit elevation and contain the
time series of the area (here in km2) for every date given above.

.. code-block:: text
   :caption: Example of a csv file containing a land cover evolution.

   bands,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris
   ,01/08/2020,01/08/2025,01/08/2030,01/08/2035,01/08/2040,01/08/2045,01/08/2050,01/08/2055,01/08/2060,01/08/2065,01/08/2070,01/08/2075,01/08/2080,01/08/2085,01/08/2090,01/08/2095,01/08/2100
   4274,0.013,0.003,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0
   4310,0.019,0.009,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0
   4346,0.052,0.042,0.032,0.022,0.012,0.002,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0
   4382,0.072,0.062,0.052,0.042,0.032,0.022,0.012,0.002,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0
   4418,0.129,0.119,0.109,0.099,0.089,0.079,0.069,0.059,0.049,0.039,0.029,0.019,0.009,0,0,0,0
   4454,0.252,0.242,0.232,0.222,0.212,0.202,0.192,0.182,0.172,0.162,0.152,0.142,0.132,0.122,0.112,0.102,0.092
   4490,0.288,0.278,0.268,0.258,0.248,0.238,0.228,0.218,0.208,0.198,0.188,0.178,0.168,0.158,0.148,0.138,0.128
   4526,0.341,0.331,0.321,0.311,0.301,0.291,0.281,0.271,0.261,0.251,0.241,0.231,0.221,0.211,0.201,0.191,0.181
   4562,0.613,0.603,0.593,0.583,0.573,0.563,0.553,0.543,0.533,0.523,0.513,0.503,0.493,0.483,0.473,0.463,0.453
   4598,0.648,0.638,0.628,0.618,0.608,0.598,0.588,0.578,0.568,0.558,0.548,0.538,0.528,0.518,0.508,0.498,0.488
   4634,0.618,0.608,0.598,0.588,0.578,0.568,0.558,0.548,0.538,0.528,0.518,0.508,0.498,0.488,0.478,0.468,0.458
   4670,0.478,0.468,0.458,0.448,0.438,0.428,0.418,0.408,0.398,0.388,0.378,0.368,0.358,0.348,0.338,0.328,0.318
   4706,0.306,0.296,0.286,0.276,0.266,0.256,0.246,0.236,0.226,0.216,0.206,0.196,0.186,0.176,0.166,0.156,0.146
   4742,0.338,0.328,0.318,0.308,0.298,0.288,0.278,0.268,0.258,0.248,0.238,0.228,0.218,0.208,0.198,0.188,0.178
   4778,0.199,0.189,0.179,0.169,0.159,0.149,0.139,0.129,0.119,0.109,0.099,0.089,0.079,0.069,0.059,0.049,0.039
   4814,0.105,0.095,0.085,0.075,0.065,0.055,0.045,0.035,0.025,0.015,0.005,0,0,0,0,0,0
   4850,0.051,0.041,0.031,0.021,0.011,0.001,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0
   4886,0.019,0.009,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0
   4922,0.008,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0
   4958,0.003,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0

There is no need to specify the corresponding changes in the generic ``ground`` land
cover as it will be automatically computed to preserve the total hydro unit area.

Commit message:

Started description of glacier retreat modeling options

doc/advanced.rst, after:

.. _advanced:

Advanced features
=================

Land cover evolution
--------------------

The land cover types in hydrobricks are defined by the user 
(see the :ref:`hydro units section <spatial-structure>`).
Each hydro unit is thus internally defined by a total area and fractional land
covers. These land covers can have a dynamic evolution. This evolution can be
externally driven or internally computed.

Hydrobricks offers the following options:

1. Evolution set through csv file
2. Evolution computed from shapefiles
3. Evolution computed from shapefiles and delta-h method
4. Evolution computed from ice thickness and delta-h method


Evolution set through csv file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

One can provide the model with a timeseries of dates and new land cover areas, such as:

.. code-block:: python

   changes = behaviours.BehaviourLandCoverChange()
   changes.load_from_csv(
       '/path/to/surface_changes_glacier_debris.csv',
       hydro_units, area_unit='km2', match_with='elevation'
   )
   model.add_behaviour(changes)

The definition of a land cover evolution does not replace the original definition of
the hydro units, which need to be also provided to the function.
The areas provided in the definition of the hydro units are the starting point of the
model, and these changes will be enforced in due time.
However, if some changes are defined for dates prior to the start of the modelling
period, these changes will also be applied.
The function ``changes.load_from_csv()`` can be called multiple times for different files.
The corresponding csv file must contain the name of the land cover to change on the
first row (for example here ``glacier_debris``), the dates of these changes on the
second row, and then the change time series.
These changes list all hydro units that need to change; those that do not need to
change should not be listed in the file.
There are two ways to identify the hydro units: by elevation
(``match_with='elevation'``) or by ID (``match_with='id'``).
In the following example, these changes start with the unit elevation and contain the
time series of the area (here in km2) for every date given above.

.. code-block:: text
   :caption: Example of a csv file containing a land cover evolution.

   bands,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris,glacier_debris
   ,01/08/2020,01/08/2025,01/08/2030,01/08/2035,01/08/2040,01/08/2045,01/08/2050,01/08/2055,01/08/2060,01/08/2065,01/08/2070,01/08/2075,01/08/2080,01/08/2085,01/08/2090,01/08/2095,01/08/2100
   4274,0.013,0.003,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0
   4310,0.019,0.009,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0
   4346,0.052,0.042,0.032,0.022,0.012,0.002,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0
   4382,0.072,0.062,0.052,0.042,0.032,0.022,0.012,0.002,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0
   4418,0.129,0.119,0.109,0.099,0.089,0.079,0.069,0.059,0.049,0.039,0.029,0.019,0.009,0,0,0,0
   4454,0.252,0.242,0.232,0.222,0.212,0.202,0.192,0.182,0.172,0.162,0.152,0.142,0.132,0.122,0.112,0.102,0.092
   4490,0.288,0.278,0.268,0.258,0.248,0.238,0.228,0.218,0.208,0.198,0.188,0.178,0.168,0.158,0.148,0.138,0.128
   4526,0.341,0.331,0.321,0.311,0.301,0.291,0.281,0.271,0.261,0.251,0.241,0.231,0.221,0.211,0.201,0.191,0.181
   4562,0.613,0.603,0.593,0.583,0.573,0.563,0.553,0.543,0.533,0.523,0.513,0.503,0.493,0.483,0.473,0.463,0.453
   4598,0.648,0.638,0.628,0.618,0.608,0.598,0.588,0.578,0.568,0.558,0.548,0.538,0.528,0.518,0.508,0.498,0.488
   4634,0.618,0.608,0.598,0.588,0.578,0.568,0.558,0.548,0.538,0.528,0.518,0.508,0.498,0.488,0.478,0.468,0.458
   4670,0.478,0.468,0.458,0.448,0.438,0.428,0.418,0.408,0.398,0.388,0.378,0.368,0.358,0.348,0.338,0.328,0.318
   4706,0.306,0.296,0.286,0.276,0.266,0.256,0.246,0.236,0.226,0.216,0.206,0.196,0.186,0.176,0.166,0.156,0.146
   4742,0.338,0.328,0.318,0.308,0.298,0.288,0.278,0.268,0.258,0.248,0.238,0.228,0.218,0.208,0.198,0.188,0.178
   4778,0.199,0.189,0.179,0.169,0.159,0.149,0.139,0.129,0.119,0.109,0.099,0.089,0.079,0.069,0.059,0.049,0.039
   4814,0.105,0.095,0.085,0.075,0.065,0.055,0.045,0.035,0.025,0.015,0.005,0,0,0,0,0,0
   4850,0.051,0.041,0.031,0.021,0.011,0.001,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0
   4886,0.019,0.009,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0
   4922,0.008,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0
   4958,0.003,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0

There is no need to specify the corresponding changes in the generic ``ground`` land
cover as it will be automatically computed to preserve the total hydro unit area.
